== ABOUT

USBDescriptorKitchen is a tool that helps developers of USB firmwares to ease
the pain of calculating lengths of descriptors, fiddling with bits, dealing
with variable length fields etc.

It is written in wxPython and works well on Linux and Mac OS X.


== HOW TO USE

Run the program with "python MainWindow.py". It will show a simple GUI with
a tree of available descriptors on the left side and a detailed view of the
selected descriptor in the right side.

To add a descriptor, right-click on the descriptor in the left-hand tree view
which should be the parent of the new descriptor. The menu will only offer you
valid descriptor types which are allowed to be children of the selected parent.
The second option in this context menu is to remove a descriptor.

Lines in the detail view have different colors to distinguish different types
of descriptor elements:

  BLACK - constant values and automatically calculated fields.
          Non-editable.
  BLUE  - links and enumerated fields. Left-click on the "Value" column
          to get a menu of possible values for enumerations or links to
          other entities, respectively.
  RED   - variable content. Left-click on the "Value" column to open a
          text editor field.


You can save the descriptor set to a file or dump it to stdout at any time.

The only output format currently supported is as plain C header file, and the
tool is also able to read back the file and reconstruct the descriptors from
the C structs. The important detail here is that indentation is taken into
account, so be sure to keep it in order when editing manually.


== DESCRIPTOR TEMPLATES

There are some descriptor templates available, and they suffice to build
USB audio devices. But there are certainly many missing. Have a look at
Templates/ to see how to create new ones.


== CHECKS

A framework for sanity checks exists which should grow every time a common
problem with descriptor sets is found that can be avoided in the future.
However, there is only one check at the moment for the time being, and it
mostly acts as prove of concept and as explanations of how to write more
complex checks.


== BUGS

Eventually, the read-back of descriptor sets should not rely on the indentation
but do a full content parse, just like any USB stack also does.

There are possibly some bugs left, and definitely the list of supported
descriptors is incomplete. Feedback helping to improve things is always
welcome, preferrably in the form of proper git patches.



Daniel Mack, August 2010

